**TouchID Introduction:-**

Information Security experts claim that frauds in internet payment can be significantly reduced if some form of trust is established for the computer from which the transaction is executed. Effectively this means that if the Mac or IMEI or any such unique identifier of a computer is trusted, then the transactions from that computer can be safely assumed to be legitimate.

Considering this our POC demonstrates a quick, easy and robust authorization mechanism for mobile payment application using the unique device ID (vendor ID) and Touch Id framework included in iOS 8.0. This application provides the functionality of one time login. Once users get logged in using their credential, next time they just need to touch their finger in order to login. This is a superfast process for safest authorization.

To understand the concept, please take a look at the post on this link http://www.cultofmac.com/285764/1password-touch-id-integration-ios-8-truly-amazing/.

 
**Pre-requisites:-**

iOS 8.0 and later.

iPhone 5s and later

 
**Features:-**

Secure registration and login by using user finger print matching on iPhone 5S and above devices.

One time login. User need to enter his/her credential at the time of registration only, next time users need to use their Touch ID registered finger to login to the app.

Key-Chain sharing based SSO. This means if user enters credential in one application, all application from the same app publisher uses the credential in same device.

**Application Flow:-**

Initially, at the time of application launch check whether user’s device is jail-broken. If it is we move to the Access Denied Screen.

Check if user has registered into the app. If no, display the registration screen.

At the time of registration User enters their Username Password on their selected iPhone 5S device. The App retrieves Device’s info using OS APIs namely, Device Name, Model, Vendor ID etc. to create a device fingerprint.

The app requests users Touch ID to bind the user, username and password pair and the device. Here the Touch ID represents the unique user, the username and password pair represents the user’s credentials and the hash value of combined device’s info represents the device fingerprint.

Once the user has authorized the username and the password with the Touch ID the app sends username and password pair along with the device’s info is sent to the backend for registration over SSL.

The backend returns a hash value generated by combining username and password pair. The App stores this hash into the device keychain. This completes the registration process for the user.

Next time when the user wants to use the App they only have to swipe finger for Touch ID.

On success the App retrieves the hash value sent by the server and the hash value from key chains. The App also retrieves the device’s info from the OS APIs.

Now compares hash return by server with hash stored keychain and hash of device’s info return by server with device’s info from the OS APIs.

If these hash match user login successfully. And if not match, clear the keychain and display the registration screen.
